[quiet music]
¶ ¶
- It looked
very mysterious.
- Can you help me?
- My God.
[dramatic music]
[both yelling in Spanish]
- No! That's mine!
Stop!
- Mel wasn't the same
happy girl as before.
Something's
taking over my sister.
- Fuera. No quiero
que pertenezcas aquí.
- That was not me.
- Fuera.
Fuera.
[haunting music]
¶ ¶
[soft Latin music]
[dogs barking]
- In the spring of 1988,
my parents decided that it was
time to buy a new home.
I was 13 years old.
- Hey, Jackie.
- I have two sisters.
- What you doing?
- I'm packing.
- Jackie--she's the baby
of the house.
I have an older sister, Maria.
- Hey, Jackie,
come help me out over here.
- I was the bossy one.
- Hey. Put it on that table
over there.
- My mom expected for me to be
a good example for them.
- Andale.
- Okay.
- My parents are both
from El Salvador.
They came to the Unites States
looking for a better life.
- José, deja--
José, deja de empujar.
- [laughs]
- Girls.
- Dibs!
Dibs! Dibs! Dibs! Dibs! Dibs!
[all yelling at once]
- The three of us girls--
we had one bedroom to share.
[all speaking Spanish]
We were poor,
but we're all just...
you know, looking forward
to this new beginning.
- A esta familia frente de Ti
y el amor que tenemos
por nosotros.
En el nombre de Jesus...
amén.
- Amén.
- Vayan. Aprovechan.
- Gracias. Gracias.
- We had been in the house
for a few weeks now,
and one evening
at the dinner table,
Maria starts telling my parents
about this new...
game.
- I really want you
to get it for us.
You ask it questions,
and it answers you.
- Mm-hmm.
- I told my mother,
"You can ask anything you want,
anything whatsoever,
and it gives you answers."
- It's called
a Ouija board.
- A what?
- A Ouija board.
- Ouija?
[laughter]
- So I was thinking
it was a game
we could all play
together.
- Yeah.
Come on, Mom, please?
- Yeah, please, please,
please, Mom.
- Please?
- Let's go to the bedroom.
- Wait up!
- Slow down.
- Okay.
[Latin guitar music]
- It looked very--
just mysterious.
It just looked fun.
- This is the planchette.
- I had heard of how
this is played from school.
- The girls at school
told me
that there are three rules
that you need to follow.
Okay, so the three rules
of the talking board...
- Maria's saying, "There are
some rules you need to follow."
- "One, never play
the Ouija board alone.
"Two, always say good-bye
to the Ouija board
"when you're done.
"And three, never play
the Ouija board
in your own home.
If you don't play"--
- How are you not allowed
to play it in your own home?
Where are we
supposed to play it?
- So we're gonna play at home.
We're gonna break some rules.
[laughs]
- You're right.
Okay.
- I said, "Okay,
let's really play with it."
- So fingers
on the planchette.
And we ask it
a question.
[sighs]
Is anybody there?
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
- We're waiting
for a response.
- Is anybody there?
¶ ¶
- Nothing happened.
- Shh!
- Okay.
Is anyone there?
- Suddenly...
It moves.
¶ ¶
The planchette felt
like it was pulling.
I'm like,
"Is this really moving?"
¶ ¶
- [laughs]
- Then I realized
Jackie was laughing.
- [laughs]
- Jackie. Jackie!
- Santa María, niñas!
Ay!
- Jackie.
Come back here.
- After a few minutes of playing
with the Ouija board,
we lost interest.
As far as I was
concerned,
it's like leaving
the "Monopoly" toy out.
There's no--
there was no harm in that.
¶ ¶
[quiet Spanish guitar music]
- I had just started
middle school.
It hadn't been easy for me,
making new friends.
It seemed like everybody had
their own...
clique.
[school bell ringing]
- Do you want to go out
with me?
- There was this one girl,
her name was Erica.
She was known as the bully
of the school.
[indistinct chatter]
And she was making my life
miserable.
I dreaded walking
out of my classroom.
[disturbing music]
¶ ¶
- Loser!
You're just
a pathetic loser.
[laughs]
- I would go home every day
just sad
and feeling lonely.
- I could use
some help in here.
- Mel wasn't the same happy girl
as before...
but I had no idea
that she was being bullied.
¶ ¶
- I didn't have a friend
to call and vent to.
I couldn't talk to my mom
about it.
I couldn't talk to anybody
¶ ¶
[ominous music]
Something was telling me
I could talk to the Ouija board
and tell it
all my problems.
- Hello?
- Nothing's happening,
and I felt dumb,
because I'm talking to myself.
And all of a sudden...
[spooky music]
I felt
this pulling sensation.
¶ ¶
The planchette
began to slide.
My heart was pounding
really hard.
¶ ¶
And the planchette
is moving towards the H.
And I waited
for the next letter.
¶ ¶
I.
- "Hi."
- There's someone there.
Someone's actually
listening to me.
- Can you help me?
I just want Erica
to go away.
- Can you help me
get rid of her?
¶ ¶
[school bell ringing]
The next day I went to school
just like normal,
and she wasn't there.
¶ ¶
- Okay, class, can I get
your attention, please?
- And then the teacher made
an announcement.
- All right, you might notice
Erica is not here today.
That is because
she has been
permanently excluded
from the school.
- I felt...
this huge sense of relief.
And I ran
all the way home.
[peaceful music]
¶ ¶
- Did you help me?
[eerie music]
"Yes."
- I said thank you.
¶ ¶
And all of a sudden,
it started to go in circles.
¶ ¶
I was not
asking questions.
I'm thinking,
"What in the world is going on?
This thing is moving
on its own."
¶ ¶
And it starts
to spell "I."
- "M."
"I am."
- It spells our "your,"
and then "F-R"...
- "I"...
- "E-N-D."
- "I am your friend."
[sniffles]
- That night my parents
went out on a date.
Maria was babysitting us.
[indistinct chatter on TV]
[static whirs on TV]
- There was this intense pain.
[tense music]
¶ ¶
So I went to the kitchen
to grab a pain pill.
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
[wings flapping]
- [gasps]
- I start hearing footsteps.
[footsteps approaching]
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
That was our backyard,
and we kept our fence locked.
No one was supposed to be
back there.
[footsteps approaching]
The footsteps
were getting closer.
[footsteps approaching]
And they stopped.
¶ ¶
[tense music]
- [hisses]
[dog barking]
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
- [hisses]
- [screams]
Maria! Maria!
- I was so scared.
- I heard something.
- Mel.
- I said,
"Okay, let's go,
you know,
find out what's going on."
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
- [whispering]
Stay close, Jackie.
- We walked one
behind the other
towards the kitchen.
¶ ¶
- Where did the noise come from?
- It was by the window.
¶ ¶
[wood creaking]
- Did you hear that?
- Someone was walking around
upstairs.
[wood creaking]
- There was someone else with us
in the house.
¶ ¶
- Let's go take a look.
[wood creaking]
- I wasn't thinking, "I'm gonna
find someone and fight someone,"
but I need to find out
what's going on.
¶ ¶
- It's okay.
[wood creaking]
- [whispering]
Are Mom and Dad home yet?
- I called out.
- Mom, is that you?
- No response.
But the footsteps
continued.
[wood creaking]
They're coming
from my parents' bedroom.
[wood creaking]
- I am so afraid
as to what I'm gonna find,
but I have to open
the door.
¶ ¶
- [whispering]
Hit the lights.
- And as I'm turning
the doorknob,
the footsteps stopped.
[door creaking]
I'm scared,
because I know what I heard.
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
[electrical buzzing]
- There was nothing there.
[door opens]
- Señorita.
- There was no reason for us
to have heard all those noises.
- Mom, Dad!
- Mi amor.
- I think there's someone
in the house.
[scary music]
- What's going on?
Are you imagining?
¶ ¶
- There was footsteps!
- No!
- My dad is acting
way out of character.
- ¿Por qué estás despierta
ahorita?
Go to sleep, now!
- It was very unsettling.
[dog barking]
Every day after school,
I would just go home
and talk
to the Ouija board.
- Are you there?
[soft music]
- But I didn't know if my friend
was a male of female,
a child,
I wasn't sure.
- Are you male of female?
- "F-E"...
- "M"...
Female.
[chuckles]
- My heart was jumping.
Of course it's a female.
It's my best friend.
¶ ¶
[foreboding music]
- Ya guarda eso
y ponte a estudiar.
¶ ¶
- She was in her own
little world with the board.
- [whispering indistinctly]
- Mel, put it away.
¶ ¶
- I worried about her.
- Yo tengo que trabajar.
¿Qué quieres que haga?
- No me grites.
No me grites.
[both continue arguing
in Spanish]
[crash, glass breaking]
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
[light shuffling]
- I'm hearing
these shuffling sounds...
[light thud]
¶ ¶
Like bare feet dragging
around the room--around my bed.
[footsteps approaching]
I whispered...
[whispering]
"Maria, wake up."
There was no response.
[footsteps approaching]
Whatever it was,
it was coming towards me.
[footsteps approaching]
I felt something
grab my leg.
[eerie screeching]
[footsteps approaching]
- [screams]
- Something was pulling me
back towards my bed.
[rustling]
And never, ever had I felt
anything like that before.
[rustling]
[scary music]
- Mel was climbing on my bed,
almost jumping on me.
- Something--
something--
- ¿Qué te pasa?
¿Por qué estás gritando?
- Mom, something
pulled my foot--
- My dad says,
"You're crazy."
- Dad.
- Mira, nada más.
Estás cansadísima.
Te la llevo.
- Mom, no!
That's mine!
No! Mom, stop!
- No, dame. Suéltela.
- And I felt
a complete sense of...
rage.
- It's mine! Mom, no!
- Te la llevo.
- Let go!
Stop! Stop!
[panting]
[door closes]
[foreboding music]
¶ ¶
[eerie music]
[clatter]
¶ ¶
- It had just been
a few days
since my mom
threw the board away,
but I was already missing...
a friend.
I decided that was
going to make my own board.
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
I felt like I was
being directed.
I am being guided.
¶ ¶
I was determined to find
my friend again.
I laid my hands
on top of the glass,
and I asked...
- Are you there?
[scary music]
¶ ¶
[soothing Latin guitar music]
- One evening
I was in my room,
flipping
through different cassettes.
[heavy rock music playing]
¶ ¶
I decided that I was gonna go
down and get a drink of water.
¶ ¶
[eerie music]
[heavy rock music playing]
¶ ¶
[radio static]
- [chanting in unknown language]
- I begin to hear
what sounds like chanting.
- [chanting in unknown language]
- It was not English.
It was not Spanish.
It was nothing
that I could understand.
- [chanting in unknown language]
- It was getting louder
and louder.
[scary music]
My God!
- [chanting in unknown language]
- ¿José?
- Basta, José.
- [chanting in unknown language]
- It felt like something
had control of my dad.
- [hisses]
- Mom, are you okay?
¶ ¶
[soothing Latin guitar music]
- My dad was not the man
that he once was.
- [hisses]
- I did not want
to deal with it anymore.
[vehicle passes]
I felt that my family as we
knew it was falling apart.
I felt like we were
in danger.
[ominous music]
- Can you help me?
- I was sitting
in the living room with Jackie.
¶ ¶
Something's not right.
I had a sense of dread.
¶ ¶
He just goes straight
to the bedroom where my mom is.
- ¿Por qué
no has limpiado aquí?
- ¿Estás loco?
Ni siquiera te pones a--
- ¿Por qué me estás hablando
de eso ahorita?
- They never had an argument
like this.
This one was different.
- Tú me estás arruinando
mi vida.
- Has arruinado todo el mundo.
¿Qué estás haciendo?
- I asked my friend...
- Can you please make
my dad go away?
[both shouting in Spanish]
[ominous music]
- [screams]
- I felt my body be turned
just really hot,
like the blood
was boiling.
¶ ¶
[both continue arguing
in Spanish]
- ¿Por qué estás aquí?
- ¿Por qué
me estás haciendo loco?
- Me estás lastimando.
- ¿De qué estás hablando?
Tú estás arruinando
mi vida.
¿Qué te pasa?
- Vuélvete para acá.
[yelling in distorted voice]
¶ ¶
- We're all just standing there
in shock
to see my sister
holding a gun.
¶ ¶
- You don't have the guts.
No te atreves.
- No lo hagas.
¶ ¶
- I wanted to hurt him.
- ¿Qué vas a hacer con eso?
¿Dispararme?
- Maria,
put the gun down.
- Ay, María.
[ominous music]
- My mom went like this
to my arm.
¶ ¶
- [gasps]
[gun clatters]
¶ ¶
- [panting]
- That's when I realized
I had shot the ceiling.
- Déjame. Déjame!
[both panting]
- I felt like...
something took over me.
¶ ¶
[eerie music]
- The apartments
that we moved to
was not the best place
for us to go to.
¶ ¶
- For a few weeks now,
I wasn't feeling like myself.
I felt almost disconnected
with everything.
¶ ¶
I felt like
the Ouija board was
the only friend in the world
that I had.
¶ ¶
One afternoon,
I wasn't sure
what I wanted to ask it
anymore,
and the one thing
that I never thought to ask
before
of the board was...
- Where are you from?
- "F"...
"R"...
"O"...
"M"...
- "From"...
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
"H"...
"E"...
"L"...
"L."
"From hell."
[scary music]
- I have been talking
to someone in hell--from hell.
¶ ¶
I was in panic mode.
I put the glass
on the dresser, and I ran.
¶ ¶
And then I heard--
[glass breaking]
I have to go
back in there.
I have to go see
what happened.
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
[doorknob clicking]
[eerie music]
The letters were
everywhere,
tiny pieces of glass
all over the floor.
I was sure that I had
just made someone
very, very upset...
by running away.
¶ ¶
I could hear it
call my name.
- [eerie voice]
Mel.
Come find me.
- I feel I'm being directed.
I am being guided.
[eerie voice whispering
indistinctly]
¶ ¶
[eerie voice whispering
indistinctly]
[scary music]
¶ ¶
- Oh, my God.
[eerie screeching]
The Ouija board was back.
¶ ¶
[dog barking]
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
[footsteps approaching]
[scraping]
[clatter]
[pounding on door]
[pounding continues]
- [gasps]
[whispering indistinctly
in Spanish]
¶ ¶
- [hisses]
[scary music]
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
- [hisses]
- [gasps, whimpers]
[scary music]
¶ ¶
[pounding on door]
- [panting]
¶ ¶
[praying indistinctly
in Spanish]
¶ ¶
[unsettling music]
- [panting]
- Niñas! Niñas!
Vengan. Levántate!
- I could tell that my mom
was very scared.
- Vamos, mi vida.
- But she did not
tell us why.
[scary music]
[door closes]
One evening we were
getting ready for dinner.
[indistinct chatter on TV]
[eerie whispers]
I started feeling
very uncomfortable.
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
[eerie whispers]
- Mom,
someone's watching me.
- Mel, stop all that.
Go back to work.
- She thought that I was
trying to get out of cooking.
- Get the plates.
Mel, get the plates.
¶ ¶
- [hisses]
- Mom! Mom! Mom!
- I'm very, very petrified.
I am so afraid.
- Do you see her?
Mom...
- Mi vida, no hay nada.
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
- I looked around,
and she was not there anymore.
¶ ¶
But I felt...
just uneasy...
because I knew
what I had just seen.
¶ ¶
[eerie whooshing]
- [screams]
[sobs]
- Mel!
- I felt like I was going to
just run out of breath and die.
- [panting]
- Calm down.
- And I don't remember
anything after that.
- Mel!
Mi vida, Mel!
Mel, ¿mi amor?
[eerie music]
¶ ¶
Mel?
- [gasps]
Dios mío.
[eerie whispering]
- [gasps]
- Her arms are up
like this.
[eerie crackling]
She didn't sound
like her normal self.
- [distorted voice]
What are you doing to me?
- Something is
terribly wrong.
It was taking over
my sister.
[eerie whispering]
- [panting]
Wake up.
- When I woke up, I had no idea
what had just happened.
[dog barking]
[engine turning over]
My mother took Mel
to different types of doctors.
[soothing Latin guitar music]
Nothing helped.
¶ ¶
- I wasn't eating.
All I wanted to do was sleep.
That was not me.
¶ ¶
- A curandera
is a witch doctor.
- I'm a healer,
a shaman,
a person who uses
traditional rituals
and white magic to heal body
and soul and spirit.
[tense music]
[door opens]
¶ ¶
- Curanderas gave me this look
from head to toe.
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
It was very uncomfortable.
- Why don't you go sit
over there, please?
- Vamos, mi amor.
¶ ¶
- Dime qué pasa a ella.
- No come.
Está delgada.
- ¿Tú la escuchaba hablando sola
o viendo cosas...?
- When a demonic spirit
is taking over your body,
they break you down
little by little.
That's what was happening
to Mel.
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
[scary music]
- Mirrors are very, very strong
and powerful.
They can trap souls.
- [speaking Spanish
indistinctly]
[eerie music]
Tienes que revelarte ahora.
Acércate.
¶ ¶
- I could feel my mom's face
almost touch mine.
¶ ¶
- [hisses]
- [gasps]
[eerie music]
- Que miras al espejo.
Quiero que miras
al espejo.
Quiero que te acerques
al espejo y mires ahí.
- [hisses]
- [gasps]
Ay, Dios mío!
[ominous music]
¶ ¶
- Tell me, what do you do
in your spare time?
- I told her I sleep.
- I...I eat.
- That's all?
- I play
with the Ouija board.
[scary music]
- And where is
that Ouija board now?
- Um, it's under my bed.
[eerie music]
- The curandera told my mother
to get rid of the Ouija board.
- José.
- ¿María?
- Ya voy.
- The curandera
advised my mother
that we do...
an exorcism.
[scary music]
¶ ¶
- [speaking Spanish
indistinctly]
- Fuera. No quiero que
te pertenezcas aquí.
- I felt as if she was
punching me.
[both speaking Spanish
indistinctly]
- [screams]
- It hit me on my face.
- [speaking Spanish,
voice echoing]
- My arms.
- [speaking Spanish,
voice echoing]
- It hit me on my back.
- [screams]
- [speaking Spanish,
voice echoing]
- I was so scared.
- [speaking Spanish,
voice echoing]
[ominous music]
- My whole body
is burning.
- Fuera de esta niña.
No puedes estar aquí.
- I was on fire
from the inside.
- Fuera!
Fuera!
- Santificar...
- [praying in Spanish]
- [screams]
- [yelling in Spanish]
- The spirit was fighting
to stay.
- Señor, está contigo.
- [roars]
- Fuera!
- [panting]
Mi niña.
- [speaking indistinctly]
both: Mel!
- Chiquita.
- Seeing my sister smile,
my mom smile,
and, you know,
giving us hugs,
then I felt at peace,
I felt joy.
[laughter]
- I missed you.
- I felt...
like I had gone
through hell and back.
[peaceful music]
We survived
because of my mother,
because she was strong enough
to fight for us,
to fight for me,
to fight for my sisters.
- New games.
[all chatting indistinctly]
[laughter]
[scary music]